# Abstract {-}

In the ever expanding Web of data, content is quickly becoming more important than software itself. In such a context, the capability of giving meaning to unstructured data is more and more fundamental to big and small enterprises, which benefit greatly by the possibility to browse and discover their corporate knowledge, while enforcing internal logic or guidelines. As the need for meaning and structure grows, an exciting challenge opens up for UI designers and data visualization experts: creating applications capable of exposing in a clear and meaningful way the real and valuable _content_ contained in the midst of unstructured data, hopefully supporting further reasoning or action over the conveyed information. At Mondeca, which is a leading provider of software based on semantic technologies, indeed, both areas collide as they aim at providing to their customers both the services and related web UIs, with the goal of _Making Sense of Content_, as the company's motto states.

It is precisely this what we did as an internship project: in the present work it is described the experience and lessons learned while designing and developing a web application for the Content Annotation Manager, a tool aiming at analyzing and reviewing the process of text mining and content augmentation performed by Mondeca's technologies. The challenges faced include designing a usable product adopting a user-centered approach, developing a dynamic web application with modern technologies, making the most out of today's performance models and strategies to deliver a great experience, and expanding back-end's capabilities.

# Abstract {-}

Dans ce monde en constante évolution qu'est le web de données, l'information est rapidement devenue plus importante que l'outil logiciel lui-même. Dans ce contexte, la capacité à donner du sens à des données non-structurées est de plus en plus fondamental pour les grandes comme les petites entreprises, qui peuvent en tirer bénéfice dans l'exploration et la découverte de leur propre connaissance d'entreprise, soutenant ainsi une logique et une culture internes. Alors que grandissent les besoins en structuration et en pertinence de l'information, un nouveau défi s'ouvre aux designers d'interfaces utilisateur et aux experts de la datavisualisation : créer des applications capables de mettre en évidence de manière claire et compréhensible la véritable valeur du _contenu_, disséminée au milieu de ces données non structurées, en allant éventuellement jusqu'à suggérer de nouvelles informations voire même des des actions. Ces 2 domaines sont au coeur des préoccupations de la société Mondeca, éditeur de logiciel leader dans le domaine des technologies sémantiques, car elle fournit à ses clients à la fois des services et des interfaces web, en ayant pour objectif de _Donner Sens au Contenu_ ("Making Sense of Content") comme elle le décrit dans son motto.

C'est précisément ce que nous avons cherché à faire durant ce stage : dans ce document, nous décrivons l'expérience et les résultats obtenus durant la conception et le développement de l'application web du Content Annotation Manager, une chaîne de traitement basée sur des technologies de text mining visant à annoter des documents. Les défis auxquels nous avons été confrontés ont porté sur la conception d'un produit, en suivant une approche centrée utilisateur, ainsi que sur le développement une application web dynamique à partir de technologies modernes, tout veillant à optimiser au mieux les performances, afin de produire la meilleure expérience utilisateur possible.

# Introduction {-}

##### Title {-}
A web interface for the Content Annotation Manager

##### Academic supervisor {-}
Silvia Chiusano, Politecnico di Torino, Torino

##### Company supervisor {-}
Anh Huynh, Mondeca, Paris

##### {-}
The following introduces the reader to my Master thesis, worked on at Mondeca, a company located in Paris, France, in the context of a Double Degree program between TELECOM ParisTech (at the EURECOM's campus) and the Polytechnic of Turin.

In the ever expanding Web of data, content is quickly becoming more important than software itself. In such a context, the capability of giving meaning to unstructured data is more and more fundamental to big and small enterprises, which benefit greatly from the possibility to browse and discover their corporate knowledge, while enforcing internal logic or guidelines. As the need for meaning and structure grows, an exciting challenge opens up for UI designers and data visualization experts: creating applications capable of exposing in a clear and meaningful way the real and valuable _content_ contained in the midst of unstructured data, hopefully supporting further reasoning or action over the conveyed information. At Mondeca, which is a leading provider of software based on semantic technologies, indeed, both areas collide as they aim at providing to their customers both the services and related web UIs, with the goal of _Making Sense of Content_, as the company's motto states.

It is precisely this what we did as an internship project: in the present work it is described the experience and lessons learned while designing and developing a web application for the Content Annotation Manager, a tool aiming at analyzing and reviewing the process of text mining and content augmentation performed by Mondeca's technologies. The challenges faced include: designing a usable product adopting a user-centered approach, developing a dynamic web application with modern technologies, making the most out of today's performance models and strategies to deliver a great experience, and expanding back-end's capabilities.

The Semantic Web is still an open research area, nonetheless companies willing to apply such technologies to the business world are showing up on the market at a rapidly growing pace. Among these enterprises stands Mondeca, where they focus on adapting their products to the needs of companies and business models. The next step is, then, consolidating modern knowledge coming from the areas of web design, user experience and data visualization, in order to enable consumption of the information coming out of these software, in a way that can suit both technical experts and domain experts, who may be not that familiar with taxonomies or entities.

My contribution to the matter can be described as an attempt to both see where modern web technologies can bring us in the context of a production environment, and test what is being preached by UX researchers against a real use case scenario, demonstrating the feasibility of an ambitious project, aiming at building an application capable of delivering information, as well as keeping the experience dynamic, simple, and fast.  

The success of this project, indeed, may be identified in the connection the CAM application establishes between these two separate worlds. Indeed, text mining and content augmentation processes are exploited to deliver valuable information: what this means is that, the full potential of modern techniques and complex algorithms can be put in place, with the goal of continuously improving the offer of services and insights that may be extracted from pieces of content, documents, tweets, and so on. Moreover, design and visualization principles are applied in order to create a meaningful and clear dashboard; in addition to this, drawing from the wide area of Human-Computer Interaction and User Experience, the resulting application succeeds in supporting users to complete their activities of both analyzing the detected entities and relationships, and reviewing such annotations, by confirming, deleting and adding them as needed.

In other words, the two domains of expertise collide in the development of a product that may be competitive, feature-rich and human-sized.
